ABBY LEE MILLER: Previously on Dance Moms.
CATHY: I need to win.
I need to beat her.
That's why you guys are here.
ABBY LEE MILLER: Jill is kind of stepping
into Melissa's old spot.
CATHY: That's a good girl. Go potty.
I don't like people going behind my back.
You know that's my problem with Melissa.
CATHY: The boys are just amazing.
ABBY LEE MILLER: I don't want
to be fourth in front of Cathy.
There's Chloe's hat.
Nice job, Chloe.
Go. We're leaving. I'm done. We're gone.
Get away from me.
ABBY LEE MILLER: Coming up on Dance Moms.
It's about time you got back here.
Was she talking-- did you guys here that?
Welcome to The Avalanche.
Where's Kelly?
She's schmoozing with her new BFF.
- Oh.
- Sophia will be doing a solo.
CATHY: She's going down. I can feel it.
CHILDREN: Apple core. Apple core.
This is a dog training tool.
It means the dog sit down and shut up.
- MAN: Are you saying--
- So your blood pressure--
- I have--
- Sit.
Abby your blood pressure.
I'm just worried she's going
to have a heart attack.
- CATHY: So.
- Cathy no one wants to here.
- Just shut your mouth.
- Shut your mouth.
- Woo.
- Don't say anything about my child--
- MAN: That's enough.
- [bleep]
[theme music]
THEME SONG: Get up.
Get on the floor.
My world is with my girls.
Living on the dance floor.
[music playing]
Oh, we're the first ones here.
Oh, it's a record.
Get undressed and start stretching.
Hi, guys.
ABBY LEE MILLER: Brooke,
you drive all the way here,
and you can't get that hair in a bun.
Hello.
- Hi, guys.
- Hi.
Have you guys seen Christi?
Is she out there? Is she coming?
I think she's mad at me
because I said something about the hat.
Which is crazy.
- It is--
- I mean we all saw the hat.
Every week somebody
messes up in a group dance.
Well, I wonder if Christi is not coming.
I find that hard to believe.
Christi has never left before.
Nice job, Chloe.
- Huh? Nice job.
- Let's go. We're leaving.
You want Chloe gone, we're gone.
You go ahead and replace me.
I'm leaving.
I'm not going to make a scene with you.
ABBY LEE MILLER: --that's
the easy way out, right?
No, I'm done. I'm done.
This is not what I signed up for.
At some point we have all
threatened to leave and storm out
and she's never done that.
We're back at Abby's,
another week, another competition
is looming, no Christi, no Chloe.
Maybe you'll have a spot
on the pyramid, Brooke.
I don't want to dance without Chloe.
I don't have my twinning power.
Your twinning power?
[music playing]
Come on, ladies,
let's go. Let's go. Let's go.
[music playing]
[sighs]
All right.
Last week you walked in here
and you were losers.
Fourth place.
Today you're winners.
You walk in here like, woo, we won.
ANNOUNCER: And the winner
goes to number 215.
[applause]
And that's all fine and dandy.
But let's be realistic
you won by a tenth of a point.
I don't want the Abby Lee
Dance Company to be just 1/10
of a point ahead of the who you beat.
I don't want it.
I want you to be 30 points ahead,
or 20 points ahead,
or 10 points, or for goodness sake,
one whole point.
Can we be one whole point
above the next group?
Abby, do you know where
Christi and Chloe are?
I'm dealing with them.
I'm going to do something
a little different today
and I'm going to start at the top.
Finally, for the first time ever Kendall
is at the top of the pyramid.
[applause]
ABBY LEE MILLER: You're
on top of the pyramid.
Hallelujah.
Kendall, you beat a lot of great people.
One of them was Chloe.
Seeing Kendall at the top of the pyramid
makes all this hard work
and all the fighting worth it.
I'm so happy right now.
Jill, I think you just made an enemy.
I don't think Christi can handle
your 9-year-old
beating her 11-year-old
who is a national titleholder right now.
I think you need to watch out.
Next, Maddie, I'm not going
to tell you, you were amazing.
I don't think you are.
And then moving on.
Nia.
Nia, you went out, your arms were pretty,
started off strong, fizzled.
Next, I have Paige.
Paige, I don't want to go over
and over things in class.
I want to tell you one time
and I want you to do it.
And next, Mackenzie.
Tell me what you did
because I heard
that you were
in the audience watching
then I saw you
sleeping in the dressing room.
You're like dead weight
coming along with us.
We don't need you there.
Obviously on the bottom
of the pyramid is Chloe.
Chloe made a mistake.
I told you all not to drop your hat.
She dropped her hat.
SONG: Just serve yourself.
Make lemonade.
Chloe is suspended so is her mother.
Her behavior was deplorable.
Abby, shut up. Shut up.
Stop talking now.
Replace us that's fine.
Come on, Chloe, we're done.
Get away from me.
I do not want her
anywhere near this studio.
She was an embarrassment
to the Abby Lee Dance Company,
and to all of you.
Abby how long is she sus--
what does that mean it's--
I don't know.
I would like to know how long
it's going to take to get
Brooke back on the pyramid.
Funny you should mention that.
[applause]
You might want to send Chloe
a thank you note
because her mother just bought you
a spot on the pyramid.
This weekend we are going to Star
Power International Talent Competition
in Detroit, Michigan.
Is there a studio from Ohio
going all the way to Detroit?
Yes, there is.
Cathy is coming back for you all big time.
I can't believe Cathy's
coming this weekend.
I really wanted to revel and enjoy
that Kendall's at the top of the pyramid,
she's going to get special attention,
and now I have to deal with Cathy,
the Wicked Witch of Ohio.
We have a group routine everybody's in it.
I am down one dancer.
I cannot afford any weak links.
Kendall, you will be doing
a solo again this weekend.
[applause]
Paige, I'm going to give you
a duet with Nia.
[applause]
The last week you thought
your good wasn't good enough.
This is your chance, don't blow it.
I have one more routine left.
Maddie, you will be
doing a solo this week.
[applause]
Don't be so elated.
It's like a default, like fine,
process of elimination.
I need somebody that's going to win
and you can bet that, that boys group,
one of those boys
is going to be doing a solo.
It's been so long since
Maddie's had a solo
I hope the added pressure
of the boys and Cathy's team
doesn't rattle her.
Everybody needs to be outstanding.
Moms we can't lose.
We won't lose.
You guys go out there on
that stage, and screw up,
and we don't win
I might replace everybody.
If I can suspend Chloe
I can suspend you too.
Does everybody understand?
Cathy is not going to get the
best of me with all these boys.
All right, moms you're dismissed.
Guys spread apart, let's go.
Gianna, I want you to bring in the prop.
[music playing]
All right, girls. So you understand Nia
that you are the wallflower,
and Paige is the wild child.
My duet this week is called the wild child
in the wallflower.
I play the wallflower.
I'm kind of shy and quiet,
kind of how I am.
Twist and lunge off the chair this way.
Good. Twist but you're not going
to stand all the way up.
You're not going to stand up.
You're just going to kind of sh.
- Sh.
- Yes. Good.
So do you think Nia
is excited about the duet?
Oh, my goodness, she is thrilled
but at the same time
Nia is very nervous about it too.
Why.
Well, when Nia get stressed
she can have a tendency of having
a relapse with her pain management.
So do you think it's stress related?
It's usually stress related.
Stressful situations will trigger that.
And you don't have an injury, like that's
the whole kicker of the thing.
Nia suffers from a neurological disorder
called reflex neurovascular dystrophy
or R&D
and there's a direct correlation
to stress.
So when Nia is in a stressful environment
I get very concerned.
That is strange.
It is very, very, strange.
But they say there's
a certain type of kid
that may be predisposed to having it.
Kids who are like perfectionists.
The type A kind of personality.
Overachiever kind of kids.
Oh, really is that what
the-- isn't that weird?
Oh, God.
I'm surprised Maddie doesn't have it.
Shut up Melissa. Does everything have
to be about your child?
I just wish Christi was
here because she would have
something funny to say
and make us all laugh.
They're just kids
who are predisposed to it.
But she can have this
for the rest of her life.
It's one of those things
that she'll have forever.
And it's not been for two years?
It's been-- yeah.
We've been two years without it.
Oh, God. Well, please don't make it
happen ever at duet.
Well, I--
There's nothing that
stressful about a duet, Holly.
It's not the duet.
She likes the idea of the duet.
It's the idea of failure.
Put your foot behind the chair.
Go again. Nia, this is the third time I'm
yelling at you about something ridiculous.
Oh. Now, she's yelling at her.
That's not going to be helpful.
DOCTOR: So Holl, tell me about Nia's toe.
After the dance yesterday
I thought you know what,
let me just take her to the ER
and be done with that.
Nia's been complaining recently
of her foot hurting
and because she has R&D
we take pain very seriously.
And I have to be sure whether
this is a painfully to injury
or is this a pain related to stress.
Obviously she's in some discomfort
and she injured her toe,
like there's no question about that.
But they said there--
is not fractured.
Like don't worry about it she'll be fine.
So you need to get your brain
in your head
I'm speaking English,
you know English, let's do it.
[music playing]
- So how is everybody?
- Good.
Mom, it looks like you're outnumbered now.
We have all of these
handsome gentlemen
that are standing with us.
So happy to see all of you.
Listen, we're going to Detroit
this weekend
because guess who
we're going to go try and find?
Abby.
CATHY: What do you guys think
about what happened last time?
We got written off.
You really dropped Abby to her knees.
She-- well, maybe she's not
able to drop to her knees
but maybe her cankles shivered.
[laughing]
But nonetheless,
you set her up and it was great.
- Let's see who--
- Let's do this.
CATHY: --is going to
hit the perfect pyramid.
First we have Brandon.
Brandon brings to the board
amazing technique.
Next Jalen.
Jalen has moved to the middle.
Next we have Zack.
Zack, I think your
extensions are to die for.
Thank you.
CATHY: So at the top
and also doing a solo this week
is my hot young lad from Miami, Gino.
So with that being said
number two tries harder.
So I need game faces on.
We are not a dance team
that takes off their hats
and the curls come tumbling.
We are an army.
Ready for war.
CATHY: Good, good. I like you.
[music playing]
From 1 to 10,
10 being the highest ,1 being the lowest,
what's the pain in this foot right now?
Probably a 7.
The 7 is too high for me
because that means
you're feeling pain
while you're dancing
you're feeling pain more often than not.
Nia has been treated for R&D
which is reflexive
neurovascular disorder,
which is basically
a pain management disorder.
Three Summers ago
Nia woke up with excruciating pain.
Nia couldn't walk.
Nia was in a wheelchair.
She was hospital bound.
Came on suddenly.
Nia was basically out of the dance.
My sense is that it reminds me
when you were back
in the hospital
was that scaring you a little bit?
Yeah.
Nia manages her pain really well
on a regular basis
but if she's in a stressful situation
it can become inflamed.
What do you think
is stressing you out in particular?
I'm just kind of afraid my best
isn't good enough right now.
You can't give up.
You more than anyone else on that team
deserves a spot
because you worked 10 times as hard.
No one else on that team
was in a wheelchair.
We didn't know
if you were ever going to dance
and now you're dancing,
you owe that to yourself.
Okay.
Everyday Nia wakes up, she proves to me
that this is a kid who is a fighter.
She is a kid who wants to
live every moment of her life
to the fullest.
What do you think about
the duet are you excited?
I like seeing that light in your eyes.
You look happy.
You look excited about it.
I think for a moment you forgot
about your pain in your foot
and you remembered the joy
of just dancing.
I'm proud of you.
[music playing]
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 1.
I wonder what Christi- I wonder
what she's doing now like my free time.
Taking a bubble bath with a candle
lit having a glass of wine.
I would maybe take some cooking classes.
Oh, God.
Don't let your feet fly around.
We're doing a group routine
called avalanche.
It's about burying them alive.
So we have these sharp little ski bunnies,
chucking up the mountain,
rappelling down the mountain.
Somebody misses a step
there's an avalanche
everybody drops like flies.
Wow did you see that?
HOLLY: That was different.
- I never saw that.
- HOLLY: That's all new stuff.
Watch out, boys,
the girls are coming to get you.
Wouldn't be great if we--
2 times in a row.
And why don't you get up on the prop.
Where is the prop?
I told your mothers to get that prop.
Where's the prop?
Let's get that prop.
I'll go look for the prop.
Melissa, you know where it is.
We have a very large
white, heavy, wooden, prop,
and it's going to serve as our mountain,
and the survivor of the avalanche
runs up to the top of that mountain
and looks back at all the people
that are no longer with her.
So this is like the mountain
and you're trying
every which way to get up it.
I'm just not getting anything
from you guys.
I need a kid like that's going
to think outside the box.
ABBY LEE MILLER: Can
you slide through that?
Oh, look, look, look.
Oh, my god.
She's the only skinny one
who can fit through there.
[laughing]
Look how beautiful she looks
even playing dead she's beautiful.
We wanted somebody to be found
like they were dead.
And I said who can I make blue?
And D said, Paige would be the easiest
just because she's the fairest.
- I don't want her painted blue.
- Yeah, that's what the girls were saying.
Yeah, I don't want her painted blue.
Hello, it's about time you got back here.
Was she talking-- did you guys hear that?
All right, listen, I want
to hear all about everything
but right now we have
a group routine to do
and I'm down a person
so you're in the group.
Unbeknownst to me Jackie and Sophia
show back up in Pittsburgh.
But you know what, I told
Jackie any time that Sophia is available
and wants to be part of the
Abby Lee Dance Company competition team
she's more than welcome.
All right.
Sophia, welcome to the Avalanche.
We didn't know you were coming.
Now that Jackie and Sophia show up
I'm not really thrilled that they're here
I'm just hoping that Sophia doesn't take
Maddie's solo away.
So was this a surprise for Abby
did she know you were coming.
We've been trying to come back
for a few weeks now
and then it just becomes like
such short notice and I'm like,
oh, I'll try. And then something
will come up and I'll be like I can't.
And so I think she was disappointed
and I was actually afraid
that she'd be upset with me.
I'm sure any time you
arrive she would be--
welcomed you with open arms.
Sophia does movies,
and commercials,
and things like that, and I have been
wanting to get Jackie alone
to ask her for some of her contacts
that maybe I can contact
them and see if they would be
interested in my kids.
I've actually been meaning to call you.
I have-- Brooke likes to sing,
and Paige likes to do modeling,
and I want to try to
get their name out there
and I want to get some
contacts out in LA and stuff.
Okay.
And I didn't know
if you would be able to get me.
Yeah, I'll give you
Sydney's agent's number.
I think Jackie is a really nice lady
and we seem to have a lot in common.
We both want our kids
to do more than just dance.
We want them to get
further in this career.
It's been a crazy week.
I feel so bad about all
this crap with Christi.
All I did was say her hat dropped.
- It wasn't like--
- Yeah.
I feel bad for you, I'm sorry.
It's been crazy here.
Oh, my God.
Maddie hasn't had a solo
since you've been gone.
- Are you serious?
- Mm-hmm.
I just think like with Christi and Melissa
they have something to lose
by Sophia being here.
I don't think that they
shouldn't think that way.
Like you're a threat to them.
- Where's Kelly?
- She's schmoozing with her BFF.
Oh.
I think she's taking her place.
Jackie is taking Christi's place.
Can she be her drinking buddy?
I guess we don't-- she don't want us.
[laughing]
Let's go to lunch though I'm excited.
- That sounds good.
- Yeah.
We still never had our drink.
[music playing]
I want you to dazzle me more
than you did the last time.
This weekend the routine
that the boys are doing
is called Top Of The World.
They are doing jazz, hip hop, acrobatic,
and there's a lot of personality involved.
We are ultimately telling
a story in this dance
and I think that those kind of dances
are the ones that usually
are the most captivating.
They're all kind of looking at a magazine
that they got
so they're dancing with a magazine
and just ogling over this girl
that they wish that they could
have as a girlfriend.
But it's got to be stage personality.
Keep motivated.
[music playing]
Jason.
(SINGING) I've never seen someone--
6, 7, and.
(SINGING) --quite like you.
Do the things you do--
Even though our team has just
come together
there's already a bond,
there's already unity.
I like the boys, they like me.
But overall it's kind of fun
to be surrounded by dance dads
so I'm just feeling confident now.
Okay, so it looked good did it look great?
- No.
- No, not even close.
It looked better by a tenth of a point.
It looks better.
- I get it.
- Yeah. Good. I'm glad you get it.
I want you guys to go have lunch
and I want you to get filled
back up and once you come back in here
to work harder than you did this morning.
- All right.
- Okay.
Mm-hmm.
[music playing]
So you're excited to be back?
- What do you think about the solo?
- I like it.
You like it.
When we arrived I found out that
Abby wanted to give Sophia solo.
I knew that she could
pick up the choreography
and that she'd be fine.
But I was worried that if Abby
did give her one that there
would be tension
and I didn't want to have that.
Hey Soph, you know how Abby says she's
going to tell the moms about
what was going on the solos
how somebody is not going
to have a solo this week
and she gave it to you.
I know it's like really uncomfortable
because we normally would
never do that, like ever.
So just let Abby handle it
and I don't know who she's taking it
away from and I feel awful.
So whenever we find out
make sure
that you go over and you say I'm sorry
and I don't know
just try to make the best of it.
- Okay.
- Okay?
Okay.
I Know I just want you to
be not concerned
about winning or losing,
just doing your best.
I never cared about using it's usually
about me trying my best.
All right. Let's go stretch, Soph.
Come on.
Want to go in the room?
I'll walk you in.
I have to go get my shoes on anyway.
[music playing]
Hello. Good morning.
It's another day.
Oh I know.
I can't believe she's
letting her sit down--
sit there pigeon toed.
Hop it down.
Circle, circle.
Whoop, down.
Nia's been scaring me
recently about her feet.
This time it just like she just has been
complaining about one foot.
Said it hurt a lot the other day.
Not excruciating that she couldn't dance--
When's this started?
The moment I really started noticing
was really after that competition.
As a mom, you could just tell
when something's a little off
with your child
and I can see Nia's favoring
one foot over the author
since the last dance competition.
Christi's calling.
Is she?
I don't get how
she returns your phone call
but doesn't return mine.
When you had an argument
with her you at least--
you like said something smart
back to her like
don't talk to me that way or something.
I sat there.
Maybe she just sees
it as this is business.
I think Christi--
I think Christi separates the two.
Like business is business
and friendship is friendship.
I'm mad Christi hasn't called me back.
I keep reaching out to her
and I get nothing and it hurts.
Hi, guys, how are you?
- Hi, how are you?
- Hello. Good.
How are you guys.
Where's Jill?
She just went down to see Kendall or Abby.
I want to know what went on
with Kendall coming into this room.
I sent her in.
Maddie's number's completed
Kendall has 40 seconds into hers.
Maddie always gets more rehearsal time
it's just a given.
Always did and always will.
Her number could be finished already
if we didn't have to go over things
and over things and over things.
Abby don't go there,
she'll learn the number
and she'll do it
to the best of her ability.
This is a big week for Kendall.
She's on top of the pyramid the same week
that Maddie gets a solo,
Sophia comes back,
and we're going up against Cathy.
It's too much pressure
for Kendall and it shows.
She's just good Jill, give the kid credit.
- I know she's good. She's smart.
- She's smart.
I know and guess what? So is Kendall.
Well, then Kendall, I'm telling you once,
you do it wrong, do it wrong on stage.
[music playing]
How'd that go?
Yeah. Not good.
It's a lost cause.
She said this would be done.
Maddie's done
because she remembered it the first time.
Oh, she's full [bleep]
That's just [bleep].
You know what she said she's just smart.
She thinks all of our kids
are idiots except for Maddie
and that's not fair.
We all know she's not Maddie.
Kendall we're going
to finish your dance with time.
Oh, crying again.
The baby, the baby of the group.
I thought it was MacKenzie, it's you.
Don't call her a baby.
[music playing]
Don't cry.
You know what I can't have
a kid crying doing a solo.
There's no way. I'm not going--
I'm not teaching you
it's disrespectful to me.
You got a solo, other people didn't
and you're boohooing,
it's ridiculous, ridiculous.
Why is she crying? What happened?
Was she involved in all this?
Why is she crying? Are you kidding me?
Did you hear all the [bleep]
I just told you Abby said?
Right here boom, boom.
Get yourself together.
Okay so you just what giggle,
giggle, all change.
- I don't like this.
- I know.
I'm really sorry
I don't know what just happened
but she just left crying.
Jackie clearly is not used
to Abby's methods of teaching.
When Abby was yelling at Kendall
you could see
that Jackie was uncomfortable
and maybe that's why
Jackie and Sophia aren't here all the time
they just can't take it.
Let's go, we're going on to the group.
Maddie move out, move out.
[music playing]
They look like skiers.
Yeah, what are they supposed to be?
How can they be frozen blue
if they've hats on?
Now, listen to me, Sophia,
we'll be doing a solo.
They don't know you.
They haven't seen you.
Cathy doesn't know anything about you,
but I only entered two solos.
So Maddie or Kendall
might not be doing a solo.
I'm not doing it, I'm done.
Uh-uh.
I'm not playing her stupid game.
It's stupid.
She gave Kendall zero chance to look good.
She gave her five minutes
in there and screamed at her
and made her cry.
Are you kidding me?
She thinks I'm a freaking idiot.
[music playing]
Oh, my gosh, there's so many
pretty things in here to look at.
Did you know that Gino
has a solo this weekend?
- Yeah.
- How do you think he's going to do?
Good.
Who do you think is the best dancer?
- Probably him and Zack.
- You think him and Zack.
- What do you think about the theme?
- I like it, it's cool.
What do you think about boys
trying to chase a girl?
That's funny, huh?
Yeah, I like the theme though.
Here. Let's sit down.
Going into the competition
I know that not only do we have
to beat Abby
but we also have to beat her popularity.
Don't you think it's kind of stupid
that the boys are just pretending
that there's a girl
why not get a girl
it's not like we don't have a whole dance
studio full of girls, right?
- Yeah.
- You wouldn't want to do it, would you?
No.
No, I don't think so.
- Who do you think I could use?
- Ayla.
Ayla. That's a bright idea.
Yeah. She would be perfect.
I like your idea, you're so smart.
Even though Vivi isn't a woman
of many words
I can tell whether
she likes something or she doesn't.
With Gino doing a solo
this week
who are you hoping that he has to compete
against Chloe or Maddie?
Maddie.
I know that Maddie is a good turner
but I don't think that she can do
seven or eight turns like Gino can.
No.
Geese, I wonder
if there's something in here
we could buy for Abby
she was so baring with gifts
the last time we saw her.
I want to beat Abby that's my goal
and I'm going to do and use
every resource that I have
to see that that happens.
Maybe we can find her
a cheap piece of jewelry.
[music playing]
Oh, you better get that
touched down on that lunge, Nia.
Way down, way down
so she can see your face.
Yeah, her face.
All right.
Ladies, our team is getting really small.
It can't be us.
I think if Jackie and Sophia
left it's a problem
because of a job.
Or maybe they're just late.
Here we are getting ready to leave
and there's no Jackie and Sophia.
Where are they?
If she knew she was leaving
last night
why wouldn't she say goodbye?
She doesn't really belong here.
I still don't understand it. I--
Jackie was very uncomfortable
with the situation.
The baby crying again.
I don't like this. I don't.
I'm really sorry.
It was evident.
She was like I don't do this.
Why would she?
She doesn't have to.
This isn't her studio.
No.
Don't loose your face, Nia,
what are you doing there?
I think it's a really good duet.
I mean it has a lot of personality.
Well, Abby initially said
when she was choreographing it.
She doesn't like the music.
She doesn't like the style of dance.
Basically has disaster
written all over it.
Good, good, good, good, good.
Now your mother came
into the store last night
you gave me this big song
and dance about your foot.
Do you need to get your foot looked at?
I mean, is it hurt?
I know. But what hurts about it, your
ankle or the ball of your foot, your--
Your instep.
Oh, gosh.
Abby MD now.
I have to go in there before
she tortures and interrogates this kid.
I know. Let me go, excuse me.
Do you think you broke something?
Hi, I thought I saw you
looking at Nia's foot.
I thought I'd just take her quickly
just to get evaluated, just to get--
Okay, it does look
a little bruised to me right here.
Yeah. Look.
I don't want you to think
that she can't do the dance.
In good conscience, if that foot
is bruised, if it is really injured.
Yeah
I'm making it worse
and I don't want to be part of that.
So I'm dismissing her now.
Take her, get me a clearance,
then I'll do it before we get on the bus.
Okay. I'll get you that clearance
because I know that's she's fine.
This duet with Paige and Nia
is already a hot mess.
Now Nia's foot is bothering her
and I'm going to add
an injured dancer to the mix, no way.
If this routine isn't perfect
and ready to go out there and win
I'm not going to do it especially
when we're going up against Cathy.
I'm going to the doctor's.
Because my foot hurts.
Abby said she even sees
a little swelling on her foot.
I'm like "Oh, great."
Oh, I thought you just--
I thought she was like yelling at you.
She needs to be cleared
by a doctor, a real doctor.
I hope Nia comes back with a clean foot
because if she doesn't
we can't do our duet.
Well, see you soon. Bye.
[music playing]
Hopefully it won't be a long visit.
I decided to take Nia
to the doctor as a precaution
just to be sure that everything's okay.
I think you have to be really clear
about what you're feeling.
I don't want you to let Paige down.
What I think it is I think
you're feeling a little scared.
I think you're feeling
a little intimidated
and you're second guessing yourself
and you're worrying about it
and you can't worry about it.
I really hope the doctor says I'm okay
and I can do the duet
because I really do want to let Paige down
and I really want to dance.
What are you here for today, Nia?
Your foot. Which foot is hurting?
And how long's it been hurting?
- And here? How about back here?
- All of it.
All of it hurts when
you're standing on anything?
Right. I didn't feel any type of lumps
or anything, so that's good.
On a scale of 1 to 10 how bad is the pain?
Seven.
I do recommend staying off it
as much as possible.
I understand she does dance
for a long period of time
but she does need to have
time to rest that foot.
Hearing the doctor say that Nia
needs to rest her foot more scares me.
I didn't think there
was a real injury there
but I just hope the doctor clears her
for this weekend's competition.
Well, I'm going to write
you a note letting you go back to dance
but absolutely stay off of it
as much as you can.
When you can.
[music playing]
CATHY: Listen, we got to get busy,
got to get busy.
SONG: All the lights are on you
As you walk into the room.
Turn my head I can dance
And I just can't catch my breath
cause you--
So we need to finish it, right?
So here's what I want to tell you
I need to see this face working in it
because I get so tired of listening
to the Maddie charm
with the face and the Chloe emotion.
We need to have that secret pocket weapon
that's also got passion.
That's why you're having
a solo this week
because you bring to the stage
this amazing animation with your face.
And I don't, don't,
don't, don't want to hear
and it was a really close score
with a tenth of a point.
You also have to worry about pleasing me.
Of course you know that should
be top on your list, is it?
Well, it shouldn't be it should
be at the bottom of the list
because going out there
and doing the dance
correctly should be number one, right?
High five boyfriend.
Okay, I want it all.
[truck horn]
Any word from Sophia's mom?
Do you really Abby not know where she is?
I really don't.
She won't answer anybody's call.
Rachel called her and said the kids
are waiting to do the group number.
- What are we going to do?
- I don't know.
Do you think she's going to show,
what are you thinking?
I don't think that she would do that
to the team, I really don't.
I think we all have a problem with her--
I mean if I have replace one blonde mom
for another blonde mom,
she by far, class, money--
- Yeah, but Chloe showed up for class.
- Chloe is suspended.
I know that I'm just
saying she's not here.
So you brought her in and she's not here.
That's what I'm saying,
Sophia is not here.
I know. I don't know where she is.
I don't know if she thought we
were living in a different time
maybe she flew.
I have no idea where Jackie
and Sophia are right now
but I have a sneaky feeling
they've headed back to LA.
That kid has too many irons
in the fire to be competing.
TELEPHONE OPERATOR: Thank you for calling.
No answer in the room.
[music playing]
[intro music]
I have a surprise for everybody.
Look at that.
You don't see big ol' Abby
coming in style this way.
Okay, boys, you have to win.
You know that?
And if we walk out losers today,
we beat Abby in transportation.
- It's destiny.
- CATHY: She's going down.
I can feel it.
- HOLLY: Who's in the limo?
- JILL: Of course they are.
Don't look at them.
All right, just ignore them.
- We're classier that that.
- They have a limo.
All right, let's go, guys.
Nothing like arriving in style.
No, I don't want you to spill it, Kenz.
Oh, look at the shambly mess.
Oh, did you come
in the big crappy bus from Pittsburgh?
Hey, you know what, Ab,
that hair is not gonna make the limo
look any worse.
Cathy, go to hell.
Oh, Abby, please.
Such terrible language
in front of children.
You know what, she just fumbled.
I think somebody just fumbled the ball.
BOYS: Who are we?
BOYS: Apple Core! Apple Core! Apple Core!
I want to introduce Kathy.
And this is a little boy
from Seattle, Washington.
Hey, listen Abby, Abby, Abby, Abby.
A young man from San Diego.
Abby, Abby, you know what?
RICK: What is your point?
What is your point?
This is a dog training tool.
That she's a fake.
It makes the dogs sit down and shut up.
Are you saying that
every girl at your school
started and finished there?
Yes.
Every single girl at your school
has never danced anywhere else?
No, but they have to be
in my studio for one year.
- Sir!
- Okay, I rest my case.
Talk to your wife like that.
Don't talk to another woman like that.
I don't talk to my wife like that
because my wife wouldn't
talk to children like that.
- Listen, Abby--
- You have no right to even be here.
I want to tell you something,
you're just scared.
Amen, amen.
You're just scared.
Let's go.
Running into Cathy before competition
is never a good idea.
That woman knows how to stir the pot.
I need my girls to be focused
and ready to win.
I am regretting the day I ever invited
Cathy to come to our studio.
MELISSA: I have to tell you
what Jackie told us about him.
Okay, you know what?
I got to tell you something
about Jackie first.
I just want you all to know that
I am the reason she is not here.
I sent her away.
I'm just going to leave
abruptly like that,
it's not very professional or reliable.
And we left-- we didn't really leave
we were just your parking lot.
- And you have given us--
- No, you left.
These moms always accuse me
of using their daughters as pawns
in this game of competition.
But you know what?
They should have had their
daughters in the studio
while they were out in the parking lot
waging a war against me.
Nia can go by herself.
That's fine.
HOLLY: You know, when I sent her
by herself last season,
you grilled me to no end.
And I was not only finished, but done.
Well done.
I think she's immature and I think
she needs to grow up a little bit.
You didn't walk in her shoes
when she couldn't walk
and she was in a wheelchair.
Are we on this feet thing again?
We are because that's who she is.
She doesn't use that to define her,
she doesn't use it as a crutch.
But every now and then
she does have pain, which is real.
- But there's no injury.
- It's real.
I'm about this far from pulling the duet.
HOLLY: No she needs to do
the duet to prove to you
that she's capable of dancing.
And dancing well through pain.
I know, but your mouth is ugly, woman.
You are a monstrosity of evil.
You want to talk about ugliness.
You're done, you're done.
No duet.
- Whatever.
- ABBY: I'm a monstrosity of evil?
- Yes, you are.
- I'll show you evil.
That's your name and reputation.
Yeah, I know, evil monstrosity, I got it.
I have to do something
to keep these moms in line.
Last week, Christi flipped out,
and now Holly is acting up.
If there aren't consequences
for their horrible behavior,
they're just going to keep doing it.
Three years ago I didn't know
if my kid could walk again,
let alone dance again.
And she's making fun of it,
making a mockery of it.
That's wrong.
But you know what, Nia has
survived much worse than this.
And this would just reflect
on how mean spirited that woman is.
Because that's why I'm here
to defend my kid
when she acts like a fool.
Wow.
- Where's Abby?
- Not here.
Not here, she's mad.
Where's Sophia?
Oh, and by the way, we're missing someone.
Yes, we are, we're missing
a key person in our team.
Where is she?
JILL: Unfortunately she was suspended.
Suspend-- you see parents
the kind of stuff
that these poor women put up with?
Suspension.
You know I have fathers
opening doors for me.
Our fathers would open
the doors for us too.
Well, yeah, you guys
just never bring your fathers.
- So, I'm so sorry that Abby's pouting.
- JILL: No, no, she's not pouting.
And that you guys are
sitting here threading.
- No, this is to sew our hats on.
- This is what dance moms do.
- You guys can arrive in limos--
- CATHY: No, wasn't that fun?
JILL: --and sit pretty. But that doesn't--
Oh, gosh, Jill, wasn't that fun?
JILL: --make you a dance mom
or a dance dad.
Oh, come on, you know that was fun.
- Oh, my gosh, I love your pants.
- Thank you.
You look cute.
All right, do something
with that hair, Jill.
Let's go.
She really is pouting.
I hate to say it
but we have to beat those kids.
We have to.
We have to beat Kathy
this week, and by a lot.
Not just by a tenth of a point this time.
So Kelly, now that you have had your
phone on
for a whole day,
have you tried to call Christi again?
I've called her three times,
she won't answer my phone calls, I'm done.
You said last night you were done,
I just didn't know if you tried again.
I didn't even do anything.
Why should I have to call her?
Why are you guys so mad at each other?
She obviously doesn't want to talk to me.
I'm assuming because I said
about Chloe losing her hat.
That's the only thing I did.
But are you guys going to be okay?
I have no idea.
I just thought our friendship
was better than that.
I knew something was wrong with Christi
when she wasn't returning
my phone calls or my texts.
I mean, I thought it was
just because I said something
about Chloe dropping her hat,
but maybe it was more than that.
Well, we had a little mishap, Miss Paige.
Abby and Holly got into an argument
and Abby said she's pulling the duet.
- But I was ready to do it.
- That's what I told her.
I was like, Mia's ready to dance.
She's ready to prove to you
that she is fine, and she can dance,
and this is why she is walking
and doing what she's doing.
I need to talk to Abby and convince her
to let these girls dance.
I'm not going let my daughter be punished
for something she didn't do.
It's just not fair.
Okay, we're all set?
Duets pulled, Kendall is on shortly.
- Do we really have to pull the duets?
- It's done.
It's already finished.
No, your mother was rude to me.
I'm sorry, it's done. I pulled it, over.
I'm not going to be spoken to that way.
Not by a man downstairs,
from Cathy and not by you.
Abby giveth, Abby taketh away.
Nobody is going to speak to me that way.
I didn't put up with it from Christi.
Tell her to keep it up,
and you'll be suspended.
Abby, I am asking you
in a very professional, motherly way,
to give Nia back that solo.
- No.
- She has earned it, Abby.
- And you screwed it up.
- I did not screw it up.
- Yes, you did.
- Paige would like to dance.
ABBY: I understand, Paige.
Sorry, you're a victim
of the circumstances.
- You're not doing the duet.
- But you are evil.
- That's why I called you evil.
- Okay, come on.
- Kendall, are you ready for evil?
- Let's go.
This is Kendall's time to shine.
I really need for her to focus.
And all this business with Cathy,
and Abby pulling the duet
it's taking away from Kendall's time.
I need Kendall to be amazing
so she can stay on top.
Come on, guys.
[music playing]
[applause]
Do you think Holly and Kelly are coming?
Where are they?
ANNOUNCER: Please help me
welcome to the stage, Kendall.
Performing Mask, contestant number five.
[music playing]
(SINGING) My name is Miss Liza Perone.
I was adored, I was explored.
Halloween
I'll come back, back for more.
Yes he'll scream.
Face
(SINGING) Scream for more.
[applause]
Go Kendall!
Kendall was all right.
She needs to work on her face,
and her emotions.
Luckily I still have Maddie
to go up against Cathy's boy.
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome
Gino with "All of the Way"
Go Gino, all the way.
[music playing]
(SINGING) Oh hey,
all the lights are on you
as you walk into the room.
Turned my head, I confess.
And I just can't catch my breath.
I'm falling down.
All of the way is how
I feel for you, baby.
All of the way, I know you feel it too.
I've been wanting to say it
but the words don't say enough.
And I'm falling down.
[applause]
That's how you do it, Gino!
- Good job, buddy.
- Good job, Gino.
Going up against boys is always hard.
They don't necessarily
need to be better to win.
Judges love seeing guys
out there performing.
So they judge them high
in order to encourage them
and keep them dancing.
I don't know, I think
Maddie can beat this kid.
KELLY: We need to go back in there
and be like, you didn't hurt us.
We're not upset.
Show her that you don't
care what she does.
Kelly is right. I need to get it together
and not let Abby see me down.
She does not have power over me.
Come on, let's go talk to her.
I did everything I could
to get Holly to calm down
and just come back into the green room.
And I'm just hoping that
Abby changes her mind
and lets the girls do the duet.
All right, girls, so we're getting ready,
but you still might not be
allowed to do the dance.
When Abby comes in,
we're going to ask her to talk to her.
You'll probably have to
just go right to stage,
so you guys have to be ready, okay?
The duet has to be even better
than she expects.
Don't give Abby the satisfaction
of even saying I told you so.
Show her that you're just
absolutely incredible.
Use your face.
Make that first left shoulder sharper.
Maddie is about to perform
her first solo after weeks
and weeks of being off.
And Maddie's no dummy,
she knows exactly what she needs to do.
ANNOUNCER: Next will be entry number 49A.
And please help me welcome
Maddie with "Quicksand."
[applause]
Come on Mad Dog!
[music playing]
Have I come this far
just for it to all fall down?
Watching all of this success
slipping through my hands.
So someone help me please.
My hopes are too high.
And the stars are too far to reach.
[applause]
Thank you.
Thanks so much.
You made her so happy.
Maddie just finished her solo
and it was amazing.
I think she was flawless.
Abby was pleased, she grabbed my hand
and she was really happy.
Hey please listen.
When it's time to compete, compete to win.
I said they can be
your friends afterwards.
Right and we all agreed, right?
Nobody is your friend
before the competition or during.
Because we want to win.
ALL: One, two, three, team Apple Core!
Last week we lost
to Abby by a tenth of a point.
We can not lose to her this week
by a tenth of a point.
We need to make such an impact
that there's a huge margin,
and there's no question
as to who should be top overall.
No I know it's an intense dance,
but we need to focus.
Use our brain.
Bring on the acting,
bring on the technique,
and do not ever even think
about hesitating your movement.
ANNOUNCER: Here we go,
it's entry number 89.
Please help me welcome
to the stage Top of the World.
[music playing]
(SINGING) I see you in the clubs,
I've never seen someone quite like you.
Do the things you do, yeah
you're that girl I choose.
Oh, yeah, I just want to dance,
dance, dance with you tonight.
Give me the chance, chance,
chance with you all night.
As I move closer lift your body higher.
You'll be on top of the world
with me, on top of the world.
I just want to dance, dance,
dance with you tonight.
Give me the chance, chance,
chance with you all night.
As I move closer lift your body higher.
You'll be on top of the world
with me, on top of the world.
Whoa whoa, whoa whoa, whoa, whoa
[applause]
Good job, that's how you do it.
I think the routine
was just the same exact steps
they did the week before.
My kids learned something new.
We have to win.
I mean, it's a matter of life or death.
It's survival.
These boys can not get one over on us.
Let's see what we can do with this group.
Brooke's my major concern.
Brooke, you want to get
your stuff off
and put a white unitard on?
See how good you look in it?
There is so much riding
on this group routine.
I need to make sure everything is perfect,
especially the costumes.
We don't have enough shorts.
Did they get shorts?
Look in there, see if there's shorts.
How many shorts do we have?
Three, we got to get going.
Get her up off the floor, get up.
Abby are we not going to
have them do their duet?
No, they're not doing the duet.
Abby you always tell us
that our kids
don't show you that they want to dance.
They're dressed, they're ready to dance.
I know but I'm not going to go
back down there
and change what I did.
I pulled it.
It's wrong.
I know that Holly is pissed right now.
But I don't care.
I only have one thing on my mind,
and that's beating Cathy.
I need to stay focused and move forward
with this group routine.
If you guys want to be in the group dance,
I suggest you're going
to get those off
and get these costumes on.
Because we have to figure
out what's going on.
All right, come on.
KELLY: Shows how we rate, Holly.
You all have cursed that woman out.
You have all cursed her out.
I called her one thing.
I called her evil when she called me ugly.
There was nothing I did wrong.
KELLY: Of course not.
HOLLY: It's an abuse of power.
And she abused her power
right there, shame on her.
[intro music]
Everything is serious, okay?
No smiling.
Good luck ladies, have fun.
ALL: 1, 2, 3, 4. 1, 2, 3, 4. 1, 2, 3, 4.
1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2, 1, 2.
Whoa, we got this.
ANNOUNCER: All right judges, up next
it's going to be entry number 88.
Please give it up for "Avalanche."
[applause]
[music playing]
Come on.
[applause]
[dramatic music playing]
Was it good?
We all landed on the
right time that was good.
No we didn't, not on this part.
The line?
Someone in the back didn't.
I am really concerned right now.
The girls made several big mistakes.
I'm just hoping the judges didn't notice.
Because I want this win.
I need this win.
And now our 9 to 11 high score solos.
Eighth place regional champion, Gino.
[applause]
I thought the choreography
really didn't suit him.
Gino would have been much better off
doing a musical theater piece.
ANNOUNCER: Now ladies and gentlemen,
it comes down to our final two.
High score 9 to 11 solo.
Less than one point
separated the difference
between these two.
Second place regional champion will
be Alexandra, "Below Zero."
Aw.
Now ladies and gentlemen,
by less than one point.
Your highest scoring 9 to 11 solo tonight
will be entry number 49 A,
Maddie with "Quicksand."
I Was so excited
to beat that boy and get first place.
I hope Miss Abby never
takes away my solos again.
Here we go,
in our 9 to 11 in small groups,
ladies and gentlemen.
Third place champion
is Avalanche number 88.
Second place, "Boy Meets Girl" number 84.
Now, ladies and gentlemen,
in your 9 to 11 small groups.
The highest scoring group today,
in a very competitive category.
Your champion and winner will be
"Top of the World"
entry number 89.
[cheering]
They wanted to beat us,
they're going to beat us.
Congratulations again.
In good company,
that was a fierce category.
Ladies and gentlemen
put your hands together
for our top performers.
Everybody take a bow, let's hear for them.
There you go.
It's always a happy feeling to win.
And it was like the cherry on top
of the sundae to beat Abby.
So, Abby, how you feeling?
- I'm fabulous.
- Great.
It was a great number, fell short though.
Let's talk about third place.
Let's talk about it.
These boys have you rattled.
They don't have me rattled.
Oh really, then why are you so agitated?
Their obnoxious dads do.
And you don't have obnoxious moms?
Oh, lots.
How about your it girl, Kendall?
She couldn't even place.
I'm still trying to erase
the bad habits she picked up.
You know what?
You're going to see more of me.
Cathy, let's get this kid
and put her against McKenzie.
You know what,
don't you dare talk about that kid.
- JILL: I heard you talk about my kid.
- Shut up, Jill.
- Don't talk about my kid.
- What you have on doesn't matter.
You're rude and disrespectful.
That's why your children left.
Now you know how it feels.
Let's go, big boy.
You were all mouth before.
You're too busy digesting
that crow you had to swallow.
Oh I didn't swallow any crow.
My child just went out there and won.
It doesn't matter.
At the end of the day, you still lost.
Who was the little girl
that showed up for 16 counts?
Oh I'll go get her for you.
I'll let her show you what she can do.
Where's Ayla?
- So.
- Cathy no one wants you here.
Do you think if I throw
this on her the witch--
Shut your mouth.
Whoa that was good.
- No I didn't--
- Let me see.
--mean to do that.
I didn't mean to do that.
No, really,
I thought the witch would melt.
No, really, I apologize.
- I didn't even know the lid was off.
- You know what?
Because I didn't mean to do that either.
If Christi can come after me.
Oh my God. You are such--
You gonna hit me with your purse?
--a [bleep] bitch.
Oh please.
Fight!
JILL: Come on, bring it on bitch.
- Don't do it.
- ABBY: That woman just hit me.
- [gasp]
- Go ahead, water doesn't hurt me.
- Grow up.
- You grow up.
- And get a life.
- You are such--
And don't say anything
about my childhood ever again.
Come here, chill.
You don't deserve to--
Shut your mouth.
--look at her with those
disgusting eyes of yours.
You're so two-bit Jill,
it's not even funny.
Get lost, bitch.
Whoo.
Oh, my God.
She is low class dirt.
Dirt.
I have lost to her,
I don't know how many times.
And I win big,
and not a tenth of a point, one time.
And I end up with water,
and being screamed and yelled at,
and drenched.
They are the worst losers
that there could possibly be.
She's screaming at you,
be thankful you don't have her
as a teacher.
Be thankful you guys don't
have her as a teacher.
You know something?
She's going down the next time,
and the next time,
and the next time.
The next time, I'm using Aqua Net.
[cheering]
Can I get it, can I get--
what's up, aye, boy, come here.
Yes, we did it.
You guys are official top overall winners.
Beating Abby Lee!
[cheering]
We need to hear the chant, and loudly.
Ready!
Who are we?
ALL: Apple Core, Apple Core, Apple Core!
Yes.
Sometimes people just cross the line.
Cathy crossed the line.
It's been a rough day and I've had enough.
JILL: I see that, yeah.
ABBY: Hi.
So your blood, sit.
I just put kids onstage.
This is ridiculous.
I've never seen Abby like this.
I think losing to Cathy really got to her.
Abby, your blood pressure,
I'm just worried
she's going to have a heart attack.
I got in a fight with a man
earlier who was belligerent.
Now I come and this woman Kathy comes in.
First she brings three men
into the dressing room,
which I don't appreciate.
And then she whacks me with a purse.
Then I came in my dressing room
and got in a fight
with my own student and her mother Holly.
What goes around comes around,
and karma's there
when you need it.
ABBY: So it's been a long day.
I was in the wrong, I know that.
I've had it.
I've had it, I'm finished.
[dramatic music]
ABBY (VOICEOVER): Next on Dance Moms.
Yo blondie, you were gone for a week.
You know what?
My daughter has a name.
How about if you just shut your mouth?
[music playing]
I told Christi I would talk to her,
I want to talk to her in private.
All I know, is when
Kelly has had bad times,
I've been the first one
to stick up for her.
If you can't answer my
phone calls, then [bleep] you.
[bleep] you.